Specviz rtd package (#217)
spacetelescope/jdaviz: docs/specviz/import_data.rst

Import Data
***********

> A user can import :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` data in a number of ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two primary ways in which a user can load their data into the Specviz
application. It should be noted that currently, Specviz only supports data that
can be parsed as :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects.

.. seealso::
   For more information on loading data as :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D`
   objects, see `Reading from a File <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/spectrum1d.html#reading-from-a-file>`_
   in the SpecUtils documentation.

```

> * A :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object can be loaded using the Import Data button:
> 
> .. image:: img/specviz_viewer.png
> 
> Click on the "Import Data" button.
> 
> .. image:: img/import_data_1.png
> 
> Enter the path of file you would like to visualize.
> 
> .. image:: img/import_data_2.png
> 
> After you click "Import", you will then need to go to the Data Selection drop down. First, click the "hammer and screwdriver" icon to open the tool menu. Then, click the "gear" icon.
> 
> .. image:: img/import_data_3.png
> 
> Here, you can select the data you loaded to be visualized.
> 
> .. image:: img/data_selected_1.png
> 
> * A :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object can also be loaded using a notebook implementation::
> 
>     >>> from jdaviz.configs.specviz.helper import SpecViz
>     >>> import numpy as np
>     >>> import astropy.units as u
>     >>> from specutils import Spectrum1D
> 
>     >>> flux = np.random.randn(200)*u.Jy
>     >>> wavelength = np.arange(5100, 5300)*u.AA
>     >>> spec1d = Spectrum1D(spectral_axis=wavelength, flux=flux)
>     >>> specviz = SpecViz()
>     >>> specviz.load_spectrum(spec1d)
> 
> 
> * A :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object can also be loaded using a url::
> 
>     >>> # spec_url = 'https://dr14.sdss.org/optical/spectrum/view/data/format=fits/spec=lite?plateid=1323&mjd=52797&fiberid=12'
>     >>> # specviz = SpecViz()
>     >>> # spec = specutils.Spectrum1D.read(spec_url)
> 
> 
> This example has the ``read`` attribute take in a url but it can also take in a file path as a parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing data through the GUI
------------------------------

The first way that users can parse their data into the Specviz application is
by using the "Import Data" button in the application's user interface.

.. image:: img/specviz_viewer.png

This process is fairly straightforward, users need only click on the
"Import Data" button:

.. image:: img/import_data_1.png

Enter the path of file that can be parsed as a :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D`
in the text field:

.. image:: img/import_data_2.png

After having clicked "Import", the data file will be parsed and loaded into the
application. A notification will appear to let users know if the data importing
was successful. Afterward, the new data set can be found in the "Data" tab of
each viewer's options menu.

To access the data tab, click the "hammer and screwdriver" icon to open the
tool menu of a viewer. Then, click the "gear" icon.

.. image:: img/import_data_3.png

Here, users can select the loaded data set to be visualized in the viewer.

.. image:: img/data_selected_1.png

Importing data via the API
--------------------------

Alternatively, if users are working in a coding environment like a Jupyter
notebook, they have access to the Specviz helper class's API. Using this API,
users can load data into the application through code.

Below is an example of importing the Specviz helper class, creating a 
:class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` using randomly generated data, and loading that
:class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` object into the Specviz application::

    >>> from jdaviz.configs.specviz.helper import SpecViz
    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> import astropy.units as u
    >>> from specutils import Spectrum1D

    >>> flux = np.random.randn(200)*u.Jy
    >>> wavelength = np.arange(5100, 5300)*u.AA
    >>> spec1d = Spectrum1D(spectral_axis=wavelength, flux=flux)
    >>> specviz = SpecViz()
    >>> specviz.load_spectrum(spec1d)
    
Similarly, users can create their :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects by
providing file paths to the :method:`~specutils.Spectrum1D.read` method::

    >>> from specutils import Spectrum1D
    >>> spec1d = Spectrum1D.read("/path/to/data/file")
    
For more information about using the SpecUtils package, please see the 
`SpecUtils documentation <https://specutils.readthedocs.io>`_.
```

Author: Much better! I included your suggestions in the latest commit.

Import Data
***********

There are two primary ways in which a user can load their data into the Specviz application. It should be noted that currently, Specviz only supports data that can be parsed as :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects.

.. seealso::

    `Reading from a File <https://specutils.readthedocs.io/en/stable/spectrum1d.html#reading-from-a-file>`_
        SpecUtils documentation on loading data as :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` objects.

Importing data through the GUI
------------------------------

> The first way that users can parse their data into the Specviz application is

Reviewer 2: The first way that users can load their data...

by using the "Import Data" button in the application's user interface.

.. image:: img/specviz_viewer.png

This process is fairly straightforward, users need only click on the "Import Data" button:

.. image:: img/import_data_1.png

and enter the path of file that can be parsed as a :class:`~specutils.Spectrum1D` in the text field:

.. image:: img/import_data_2.png

> After having clicked "Import", the data file will be parsed and loaded into the application. A notification will appear to let users know if the data importing was successful. Afterward, the new data set can be found in the "Data" tab of each viewer's options menu.

Reviewer 2: After clicking "Import"
and
to let users know if the data import was successful.

To access the data tab, click the "hammer and screwdriver" icon to open the tool menu of a viewer. Then, click the "gear" icon.

.. image:: img/import_data_3.png

Here, users can select the loaded data set to be visualized in the viewer.

.. image:: img/data_selected_1.png

Importing data via the API
--------------------------

> Alternatively, if users are working in a coding environment like a Jupyter notebook, they have access to the Specviz helper class's API. Using this API, users can load data into the application through code.

Reviewer 2: the Specviz helper class API.
